# This is a .rest file, used by REST Client extensions (e.g., in VS Code)
# to send HTTP requests to a web server. It's great for testing APIs.

# Lines starting with # or ### are comments.
# ### is often used for a title for the request block.

### Get system info
# This request retrieves general information about the system.
# - GET is the HTTP method, used for retrieving data.
# - http://127.0.0.1:5000/info is the URL of the API endpoint.
#   - http:// specifies the protocol.
#   - 127.0.0.1 is the IP address for localhost (your own machine).
#   - :5000 is the port number the Flask server is listening on.
#   - /info is the specific path for this endpoint.
GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/info

### Create a new user
# This request creates a new user with the provided name and email.
# - POST is the HTTP method, used for sending data to create a resource.
# - http://127.0.0.1:5000/crear_usuario is the URL of the API endpoint.
POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/crear_usuario
# - Content-Type: application/json is an HTTP header.
#   It tells the server that the body of this request will be in JSON format.
Content-Type: application/json

# This is the body of the POST request, formatted as JSON.
# It contains the data for the new user.
{
    "nombre": "John Doe",
    "correo": "john.doe@example.com"
}

### Create another new user
# This request creates another new user, similar to the one above.
# It demonstrates sending another POST request to the same endpoint
# but with different data in the JSON body.
POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/crear_usuario
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "nombre": "Jane Doe",
    "correo": "jane.doe@example.com"
}

### Get all users
# This request retrieves a list of all users that have been created.
# - GET is used as we are fetching data.
# - http://127.0.0.1:5000/usuarios is the endpoint for getting all users.
# If you run the POST requests above first, this GET request will show those users.
GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/usuarios

### Get the main page
# This request retrieves the main HTML page of the application.
# - GET is used to fetch the root page.
# - http://127.0.0.1:5000/ is the base URL of the application.
# This is what you would typically type into a browser to see the website.
GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/
